 WETSPOT II: SURPRISE, SURPRISE!

Game version: Wetspot 2 v1.1 and v1.2
Title: Surprise, surprise!
Levels: Areas 1-20!
New graphics: duh
New sound: cant do
New music: yessir
  Areas:
  1) Flashback            11) Leaving Earth
  2) Hairy Airya          12) Phobos
  3) The pits             13) The last of Earth
  4) Rescue Coby!         14) Mars
  5) Jail                 15) Polar ice
  6) What pretty colors!  16) Deimos
  7) Kitchen              17) Death awaits..
  8) Mouse hunt           18) The Big One
  9) Math anxiety         19) Back on the Ship
  10) Aura                20) Black hole!
Description:
  An awsome 20 areas. Without reading the story below, you won't know what's
  going on in each one. So read on! (Note: when referring to "you," it can
  mean Cuby or both crabs, depending on the number of players.)

    Okay, you make it back home and everything, say hello to your parents, you
  all start crying and your mother slaps you for staying out after dark...
  Anyway, the ocean floor suddenly starts shaking violently. Then you hear a loud
  CRACK, and the ground splits apart, right under your feet! You manage to
  stay away, but your parents fall right in. You call for them, but it's too
  late. They are gone.
    Later you find out that more enemies are attacking. They invented a highly
  advanced weapon which is what caused the quake. You cannot believe that you
  have not killed all of the enemies. They were gone when you came back! But,
  there they are, unharmed and more numerous as if you never even left before.
  You go out to destroy the horrible creatures once more. Not to mention that
  weapon, the "Big One."

  AREA 1: You fall asleep before you go out for the second time and remember
          what had happened from the very beginning.
  AREA 2-3: You head out, only to find yourself warped into another dimension.
          You won't be getting anywhere fast from here!
  AREA 4-5: The enemies (aliens, you should call them, since they are from
          places beyond our planet,) have captured Coby (repeatedly) ! Rescue
          him. The USPD (Under-Sea Police Dpt.) has captured some enemies and
          put them in jail, where they can't escape. Or can they? Before they
          do, make sure you kill them all.
  AREA 6-7: You start wondering around the ocean some more, and fall asleep
          at night. You haven't eaten in 5 days, now. You are starting to
          get dizzy! (Oh, the colors...) Later, you find yourself in an old
          restaurant. The owner crab is dead, in the doorway. Something must
          have happened to him during the quake.
  AREA 8: In the back of the restaurant there is a research lab. Wow! This
          owner must have been serving people diseased mice or something
          for dinner. (Strange how he could find mice on the ocean floor.)
  AREA 9: You talk to an alien, before killing him. So he helped you out,
          big deal. It serves them right for taking your parents where
          he's going anyway. He said you could take a spaceship (look
          for bright colors) up to space and find the aliens' home planet.
          To operate the spaceship is tough work. You'd have to be the worlds
          best mathemitician to do it!
  AREA 10-11: You found the ship. It was about time to get started.
  AREA 12: You land on Phobos, surprised to see aliens here too. How many
          planets have they been invading? What kind of crazy thought is it
          to take over the universe? Hurry up to their home planet, Deimos,
          and then back to Earth before they destroy it completely!
  AREA 13: Too late! You get back on Earth as it begins to crumble apart.
          take the spaceship back out to space and get some REVENGE!
  AREA 14: Taking a pitstop on Mars, it is so HOT! You need water. Crabs
          can't live without water, you know!
  AREA 15: Ah, nice and cold..not to mention all the ice and water! You could
          stay here as long as you want..but remember, time is running out.
          You must destroy the "Big One" before the universe goes boom!
  AREA 16: You make it to Deimos, the aliens' home planet. The place really
          smells bad.
  AREA 17: You find a tunnel on the planet that leads far down under its
          surface. A torture chamber down there. It smells even worse, now.
  AREA 18: The hidden observatory, home of the Big One. Destroy it, before it
          destroys you! At the end of 18-4 you hit the self destruct button.
          On 18-5 you have only 15 seconds to get the heck out of there!
  AREA 19: Back on the ship, looking out the window, counting down the seconds
          before the explosion. Then...BOOM! Peices of Deimos fly in all
          directions. Some almost collide into your ship, but none do. Yes!
          The aliens have been destroyed! You finally showed them! Wait...
          HAVE they been destroyed? You hear footsteps, and weird sounds in
          the back room. Uh, oh...
  AREA 20: Yes! Finally! After all this time, you finally finished them off!
          But of course, as you know, there are 20 areas, not 19. So...
          Over the excitement of your victory, (you consider it a victory, even
          though your planet has been destroyed...) you aren't watching where
          the ship is going. Before you know it you're heading into a black hole.
          Ooh, weird things can happen in black holes, you know. (Ressurecting
          the aliens, for example, which is exactly what happens.)
  AFTERWARD: Yeah, now there down for sure. But don't forget the bad news:
          in a few seconds you will fall into a black hole, and become so
          dense you'll crush yourself and die.
          (Dude, read Steven Hawking. Black holes don't teleport you to other
          dimensions, you know.)

          WHAT AN ENDING FOR THOSE LITTLE CRAB DUDES, DON'T YOU THINK?
Author: Zack Friedrich
Author info: Loves Wetspot II, still loves Wetspot, praises QB
Build time: about 25-30 hours
Comments:
  Please to not assume I stole the idea for the level of Area 1-1 from
  Petter Holmberg (Crabs' Return, Area 5-1). He made the level before I
  did, but I made mine before I saw his. I didn't want to remove the level
  because to me it made the world a _whole_ lot better. Sorry!
