----------------------------
    CRACKWHORE SKIN PACK
by Rowan 'Sumaleth' Crawford
----------------------------

This is a collection of 5 regular skins, plus two CTF specific skins for the
'Crackwhore' plugin player model (PPM) created by Paul Steed.

Credits:-

    Author:     Rowan 'Sumaleth' Crawford
    Email:      sumaleth@frag.com
    Web Pages:  http://impact.frag.com        (Quake stuff)
                http://www.animagrafx.com.au  (work)

Contents:-

    The pack consists of the following skins (with icons):

    sumacw      - a 'Crackwhore' skin wearing lots of leather
    sumasyrinx  - Syrinx is a soldier skin (w/ plenty of armour)
    sumabeth    - Beth is a "cute girl" skin
    sumaouch    - a version of 'sumacw' in a bit of pain :)
    ctf_b       - a blue CTF skin based on the 'sumacw' skin
    ctf_r       - a red CTF skin based on the 'sumasyrinx' skin
    sumaww(*)   - 'Wonder Woman' is the token superhero skin for the pack

    * Note: The Wonder Woman skin isn't included in this release for copyright
            reasons, but if you want the complete set you can download them
            from here;
            
            http://impact.frag.com/files/SumaCWpack.zip (140k)
            
Why make seven CW skins!?!

    Good question. Paul Steed (the guy who made the PPM) ran a 'CW skin' comp and
    I decided to enter (a bad move with hindsight, but thats life).

    The comp page said you had to enter a 'pack' which I took to mean you had to
    enter a collection of skins (ie. a number of skins with variety etc) which is
    why I did so many and with such variety. However, by 'pack' they were just
    refering to the skin/icon combination (ie. a single skin). Oh well.

    The comp results, IMHO, were so bizarre that I won't even bother to mention how
    I went (*cough*), rather I decided to just tidy up my original pack and release
    it as was originally intended.

Usage Notes:-

    PPMs and information about using them (and skins) can be found on any of the PPM
    sites around the net. Two worth checking in particular are:

        http://bodyshop.telefragged.com
        http://www.planetquake.com/q2pmp

    Steed made the skin at 232x194 which means that by default in 'openGL' mode on a 3DFX
    card, it gets scaled down to 128x128 which means you loose a fairly major amount of
    detail. To get full res working you can use the command:

        +set gl_round_down 0

    Also highly weird about the model is the layout itself which can only be described
    as HELL (check out the arms and legs for example to see what I mean..). I spent a
    s__tload of time working on just about every pixel trying to find the optimal arrangement,
    so if you spot something weird on the skin... it's not my fault! Honest! :)

    Above all else, if you use these skins during deathmach, be sure to KICK ASS!

Copyrights:-

    All skins and images included in this zip are copyright Rowan Crawford. The
    'Crackwhore' model is copyright Paul Steed. Quake2 is copyright id Software.
    Wonder Woman is copyright.. well, I dunno.. Linda Carter?
