
 CRABBY DILEMMA
 A WetSpot 2 World Created by SEAV
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------


 I. ABOUT THE WORLD
  

  CRABBY DILEMMA is an extremely difficult world full of puzzles and seem-
  ingly impossible levels. The world contains 5 areas with 5 levels each.

    Area 1:  WANTED: SKILLS
    Area 2:  MOSAIC TILES
    Area 3:  AUTUMN LEAVES
    Area 4:  TRULY PUZZLING
    Area 5:  TRULY PUZZLING 2

    The highlight of this world are the last two areas which add a different
  twist to the game concept of WetSpot. Why a different twist? Well, these 
  areas, as the titles imply, are puzzles. In each level, you need to maneu-
  ver the blocks in such a way that you can kill all the enemies. It is the
  maneuvering that puts the puzzle into the levels. These areas were created
  for those people who love to play WetSpot yet want a challenge of a dif-
  ferent kind.

    I invite you to solve these puzzles (which means that you shouldn't pick
  up any level-skipping bonuses such as the Level Warp, and the Earthquake).
  There's a sort of thrill in being able to find the solution.

    Please send me your solutions to the puzzle levels. The first person to
  show me the solution of all 10 levels receives a warm feeling inside.
  Maybe I could ask Angelo to give recognition to this person!  :)

    If the other worlds did not encourage you to create your own world, I
  hope that this one will. I'd love to see your creations!

    If you wish to contact me, my e-mail address is evillar@geocities.com.

                                       ~*~


 II. SOME NOTES
   
  * Area 1-2 contains six sharks which can all be destroyed by a single
    block. You just have to time it.
  
  * The puzzle areas are timed almost exactly--your time might run out if
    you dawdle on the solution. So, you should PAUSE the game and try
    solving the levels mentally first.

  * Area 5-4 *might* show a glitch inherent to the game--some enemies can
    pass through walls!!!

                                       ~*~


 III. CREDITS

  * The game, WetSpot 2, by Angelo Mottola.

  * "Crabby Dilemma" created by me, SEAV (evillar@geocities.com).

  * All the Midi sequences were provided by my good friend Ian Gonzalez.

     Area 1: "Voltes V Theme"
     Area 2: "DLSZ Senior Batch '97-'98 Nutri-Jingle Song"
               (original composition)
     Area 3: "214" by Rivermaya, a local band.
     Area 4: "Black & White," a classical Rondalla piece
     Area 5: "DLSZ Senior Batch '97-'98 Graduation Song"
               (original composition)

                                       ~*~


  /SEAV
  evillar@geocities.com
  1998
   