 Hello, 🙂 My name is   MadShmupper and I'm part of a group of developers working on porting games to handheld Linux devices. Our project is named PortMaster, and we have an active Discord server in which you are very welcome to come check out any time.    

 For the past couple of years, we've added a nice amount Gamemaker games to various Linux devices, and we'd love to include your games as well. Although these devices have some limitations with OpenGL, games that use GLES2 and SDL generally run very smoothly.     

 We at PortMaster, firmly believe in reaching out to content creators/game authors like yourself to ask for consent in distributing their free game files within a ready to run port in PortMaster. Without your consent, the user will need to manually add their game files.    It would be fantastic if you could grant us permission to include your data.win etc.. of this game within our packaged port. May we distribute the game file/s in question, please?  Your games would undoubtedly be a superb addition to these handheld devices. Especially in a "ready to run" format. You will of course be properly thanked and noted as game author/maker. PortMaster will be responsible for the ports maintenance should any be needed. However, as the author/maker, you are welcome to come check us out and have any say you'd like involving said port.    

 Please note that we are not looking to profit or take credit for any of the games we port. Our primary goal is to introduce more games to our beloved handheld devices, and showcase the creations of fine indie devs like yourself. We're also branching out to other ARM platforms. We are growing🙂

  Thank you for any consideration that you may lend towards our request!          

 Best regards, MadShmupper & Everyone at PortMaster
Reply
Edit
Delete
Dotto Meister5 hours ago(+1)

Hey!

First of all, I apologize for not responding to another message in the Battalion game, I simply did not receive an email alert D=

We have no problem allowing Red Screen Soft games in your project, as long as they are distributed under the same terms as here on itch.io.
Reply
Report
MadShmupper4 hours ago

Thank you very much. We greatly appreciate your decision. You have some great games!