Zombie Massacre

Briefing Notes: Security Level : Top Secret/Magic.
January 2010,

By the year 2003 the battle for bio technological advances
became the new arena for scientific development, in the way
that computers had dominated the eighties and nineties.
Genetics, particularly the field of industrial bio
technology looked set to dominate the first decade of the
new millennium.

Several companies from many different countries warred for
the marketplace, each more desperate than the next to
create a new innovation that would catch the imagination
of the public and cause their company to become the world
leader in this new area of profiteering.

In their battle to create the ultimate product many of
the companies turned to chemical methods of synthesising
enhanced "Super Steroids" by combining various plant,
animal and human pheromones into a course of injections.
Too impatient to await permission to move the new
chemicals to a stage where they would be able to release
them into the market they opened up the programs to those
that wished enhancement at any cost, such as failed
athletes, or those too old to compete at a professional
level any longer. There was much discussion about the
validity of these tests by governments world wide but
under new stricter laws, they were allowed to continue,
a measure of how strong these corporations had become
in the failing economies of the European trading block.
 
Shortly after the experiments began it transpired that
the affected individuals once injected became stronger
and more long lived as their cell tissue appeared not to
degrade, historically it is now known that the flesh of
the victim though it no longer seemed to age in the
ordinary way, still died. Clinging in a state of
advanced necrosis to the bones of the subject. Over time
the victim lost most higher cognitive powers and the Id
(the part of the mind most directly related the
instincts of humans) took control. Within hours those
infected by the genetically enhanced super virus(as it
was identified most closely as) were transformed into
shambling behemoths with many times the muscle mass and
a fraction of the reasoning power that they originally
had.
 
In the year 2002 one of these altered victims broke free
from the lab where it was held, and it was discovered
several miles away, the nature of the biotech virus that
it carried caused the creature to begin releasing spores
to propagate its new species, a small town in Germany
was wiped out, the local authorities were largely able
to keep control of the situation and the press were
never apprised.
 
The governments acted swiftly and soon the projects were
shelved in country after country finally the only country
left in the world where experiments were legal was America.
In 2009 the last bio tech corporation closed its doors,
as the new age began, the age of silicon organics. The
failed experiment had allowed new fields of study to open
and advance but at the cost of many lives, the scientific
community vowed that it would never again use human
subjects in its experiments.

We believe we have discovered one organisation in America
that has not halted its experimentation into this field,
and we as part of the Anglo American trading block and
allies of the United States of America feel we must deal
with this problem in such a way so that they are not
implicated. Your brief is to enter the base destroy all
traces of the mutated creatures, and plant documentation
that another European power has backed the further
experimentation into this forbidden field so that the
American government nor our own government is linked
with this contentious issue.
 

In order to keep its experiments secret from surrounding
authorities the corporation has worked under the auspices
of a new religious cult that it has created, the grounds
are extensive and they have brought a mansion from Europe
stone for stone, and much architecture from India. The
leader of the organisation is called Hultra Thran ( a name
drawn from the mythology of his created religious
pantheon. His real name is unknown to us). Eliminate
Thran, and make sure that there are no witnesses to
identify you at a later date.

You will be equipped with several bursts of silicon adrenal
boosts that will allow you to bio regenerate large
quantities of tissue damage if you are severely injured
when you are on your mission, use them wisely. Around the
organisation there may be other items that could help you,
take everything you can. The building can be destroyed
from one of the inner most chambers as once they are
reached we believe that Hultra has a form of small suitcase
nuclear device bought from the disintegrating Soviet
republics during the nineties, he will try to hold off using
this device as long as possible. However the American
authorities have authorised you to detonate the device when
the time comes, just make sure you are out of there before
the device goes off, we want you back in one piece....
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

